# 查詢

Read operations retrieves documents from a collection.

## 1. 查詢操作符

### 比較

按照 偏序關係 + 包含 + 非

Name|Description
--|--
$eq|Matches values that are equal to a specified value.
$gt|Matches values that are greater than a specified value.
$gte|Matches values that are greater than or equal to a specified value.
$in|Matches any of the values specified in an array.
$lt|Matches values that are less than a specified value.
$lte|Matches values that are less than or equal to a specified value.
$ne|Matches all values that are not equal to a specified value.
$nin|Matches none of the values specified in an array.

### 元素

Name|Description
--|--
$exists|Matches documents that have the specified field.
$type|Selects documents if a field is of the specified type.


### 邏輯

Name|Description
--|--
$and|Joins query clauses with a logical AND returns all documents that match the conditions of both clauses.
$not|Inverts the effect of a query expression and returns documents that do not match the query expression.
$nor|Joins query clauses with a logical NOR returns all documents that fail to match both clauses.
$or|Joins query clauses with a logical OR returns all documents that match the conditions of either clause.

## 2. 基礎查詢

格式：
* 值。{ <field1>: <value1>, ... }
* 操作符的值。{ <field1>: { <operator1>: <value1> }, ... }

Mongo | SQL
--|--
db.inventory.find( {} ) | SELECT * FROM inventory
db.inventory.find( { status: "D" } )|SELECT * FROM inventory WHERE status = "D"
db.inventory.find( { status: { $in: [ "A", "D" ] } } ) |SELECT * FROM inventory WHERE status in ("A", "D")
db.inventory.find( { status: "A", qty: { $lt: 30 } } ) | SELECT * FROM inventory WHERE status = "A" AND qty < 30
db.inventory.find( { $or: [ { status: "A" }, { qty: { $lt: 30 } } ] } )|SELECT * FROM inventory WHERE status = "A" OR qty < 30
db.inventory.find( { status: "A",$or: [ { qty: { $lt: 30 } }, { item: /^p/ } ]} ) |SELECT * FROM inventory WHERE status = "A" AND ( qty < 30 OR item LIKE "p%")

## 3. 查詢嵌套的文檔

```mongo
# 查詢整個文檔，要求完全匹配
db.inventory.find( { size: { h: 14, w: 21, uom: "cm" } } )
db.inventory.find(  { size: { w: 21, h: 14, uom: "cm" } }  )

# 點查詢
db.inventory.find( { "size.uom": "in" } )
db.inventory.find( { "size.h": { $lt: 15 } } )
db.inventory.find( { "size.h": { $lt: 15 }, "size.uom": "in", status: "D" } )
```
